Personal Reflection -Moira Leon f4 Cohort
Instructions
Create a text document and answer the following questions in it. Please put some real thought into answering these questions. You should have at least a few sentences for each answer, some will be more like a couple paragraphs. This is a time for you to reflect and share your thoughts with us, so don’t worry too much about grammar or anything. We just want to hear from you!
1.	How has your knowledge of the tech field changed since class began?
Since starting here at DevMountain my knowledge and understanding of employment expectations has increased from uncertainty to a more calming feeling of manageable tasks and reachable goals and skills. When I first began, I expected my experience to be difficult and require a lot of extra studying and even after doing so I expected to feel like this skill was something that I would never quite master but that I could work hard. Truthfully being able to have the opportunity to be in such a small group and learn online relieved a lot of pressure and helped me feel comfortable asking questions until I actually comprehended the material. The greatest change of knowledge I have seen is the ability to build servers and a website from scratch.
2.	What was the most difficult part of Foundations for you? And how did you overcome that?
The most difficult thing I experienced from a skills perspective was grasping and mastering get/post and axios requests. It is the only portion I do not still fully grasp. From a personal level, the most difficult thing I faced was feeling comfortable asking question and not feeling like I was taking away from my classmate’s experience by doing so. I have tried to implement forms in both my project and portfolio to increase my exposure to get/post/ and axios. For combatting anxiety of asking questions, I usually reached out to DJ during the lectures to ask all the questions I had so I didn’t feel like I was disrupting the class. Having someone else to reach out to so that I would not have to pause the lecturer was very encouraging for me.
3.	Did you learn anything about the way you learn? What was it?
I learned that when I am confused, I can often feel discouraged or frustrated with myself and this causes my comprehension to decrease. I’ve learned the value in taking breaks and stepping away from projects and not feeling shame for doing so because it resulted in less time overall and genuine comprehension. Learning to decrease this forceful and continuous approach to things that aren’t working and becoming aware of my experience and giving myself permission to step away and return with a fresh mentality has helped me not just academically but in my personal goals.
4.	How will you apply what you know about your learning style during Specializations?
I think the most important thing I can do as I am progressing through specializations is to remind myself that confusion is just a part of the learning experience and an opportunity to open your mind in a new way to be able to accept new knowledge. I want to recognize that breaks do not mean that I lack discipline, but that they indicate an awareness of self and the application of balance which are positive aspects. The most important thing I can do is accept a new thinking pattern toward learning that is accepting of confusion to allow learning to be growth centered.
5.	What was your experience with pair programming like?
I enjoyed working will all the members in my cohort and felt like this gave me wonderful communication skills and practice for communicating and working on projects for the future. I learned to communicate my questions and concerns as well as my explanations and to ask questions to increase my understanding of other explanations in a way that could help my teammate and I understand each-others point of view and help each-others comprehension improve.
6.	What parts of Foundations did you enjoy the most? (This could be anything from a specific lab or lecture to the general setup of class or a funny moment.)
I really enjoyed the social activities on Fridays and the way that it allowed us to strengthen our connection with each-other which I think helped me connect to my classmates more and motivated me to work even harder with them because I felt connected to them. The thing I most appreciated was being able to leave early on days when we worked hard, and our instructors could see that. It was very validating to work and apply so much effort and be rewarded with an early end of day.
